
# [BeagleBoard.org Foundation](https://beagleboard.org)

[Back to catalogue](../README.md#beagleboardorg-foundation)

BeagleBoard.org is an open source community of experienced hackers, hobbyists and engineers who are enthusiastic about building powerful, open ARM-based systems completely programmable through your web browser. BeagleBoard.org’s vision is to improve access to small, low-power computing platforms that can be embedded into new creations using easy to use development tools, such as its self-hosted, web-based IDE. The hardware designs of all Beagle boards are open source with all schematics, bills-of-materials, layouts, etc. shared for building other devices. The software is also open source and is generated by the community. Compiler tools are free and the boards are available at a low cost.

Boards will be provided for free to any student participating in a BeagleBoard.org-related GSoC project.

# Application Instructions

* Twitter: Please follow the instructions on https://bbb.io/gsoc to sign up on the mailing list.

About you
========
1. What is your name, e-mail address and usernames on Freenode IRC, eLinux wiki and Github? (required)
2. What is the name of your school and in what country? (required)
3. What is your primary language and work hours? (We have mentors who speak multiple languages and in various time zones and can match you partially based on that.)
4. Have you participated in an open-source project before? If so, please send us URLs. If not, why do you want to?

About your project
===============
1. What is the name of your proposed project?
2. In 10-20 sentences, what are you making, for whom, why and with what technologies (programming languages, etc.)? (We are looking for open source SOFTWARE submissions.)
3. Provide a development timeline with a milestone each of the 11 weeks. (A realistic timeline is critical to our selection process.)
4. In 5-15 sentences, convince us you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described.
5. If successfully completed, what will its impact be on the BeagleBoard.org community? Include quotes from BeagleBoard.org community members who can be found on http://beagleboard.org/discuss and http://bbb.io/gsocchat.
6. What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn’t around?

Misc
====
1. Please complete the requirements listed on the ideas page. (http://bbb.io/gsocideas)
2. Is there anything else we should have asked you?