
# [CCExtractor Development](https://ccextractor.org/)

[Back to catalogue](../README.md#ccextractor-development)

CCExtractor is originally an organization about subtitles and accessibility (our "official" description below). However, we're doing lots of other things that are related, including tinkering with open video hardware (JokerTV), imaging (OCR), and more. So we have projects that cover a range of interests, despite our core tool being the most amazing subtitle extractor.

And now, the official description: Whether it's because you are learning a new language, have hearing problems or just at a loud place, subtitles are an essential part of enjoying TV and movies for a a lot of people. There's plenty of tools to manage audio/video, but when it comes to subtitles, the few tools that exist are closed source and extremely expensive. CCExtractor is the one tool that is free, portable, open source and community managed that can take a recording from a TV show and generate an external subtitle file for it. If you regularly watch content with subtitles you download from fan sites - you should know that the source file is most likely generated by CCExtractor. If you are a student in a university that uses subtitles for natural language study, you should know that most likely we are involved somehow. While we already support subtitles from North America, Europe, Australia and more, our world map is not yet complete. We are actively looking for students that want to help us fill the gaps. We also want to automate many of the processes that are currently done manually, such as achieving perfect sync, or word by word (karaoke like) sync.

# Application Instructions

* Twitter: Your application should include (in no specific order; you can organize it as you wish) 1) Your GitHub profile and/or links to anything you've worked in the past (doesn't need to be related to what we do), 2) Links to some solved issues in CCExtractor, 3) An introduction about yourself and your motivation to work with us specifically 4) What your expectations are participating in GSoC.

Make sure you join us in slack before submitting your application. We've never accepted any application, no matter how good it looked on paper, from a student we've never heard from.

If you have participated in code-in or GSoC in the past, please mention it.